--- 
name: updating-drupal-sites-with-patches-and
layout: post
title: Updating Drupal Sites with Patches and Drush
time: 2011-02-26 11:06:00 -07:00
---
I found a couple of drupal sites on a web server that were badly in
need of security updates.  They are no longer being maintained by a
developer but they are still in use by a user community so I didn't
like the idea of taking them down just because they are a security
vulnerability, as they still have a great deal of value for people who
use them.  So I decided to update them with the patches that are
available at <a
href="http://fuerstnet.de/en/drupal-upgrade-easier">fuerstnet</a>.
<p>If you follow the link above to fuerstnet, the site provides
patches from all of the minor versions of drupal up to the most recent
security level.  So, if you check your drupal site's status at
"admin/reports/status" (in drupal 6).  And you see that you're drupal
version is currently drupal 6.14. (That's 4 security releases out of
date!)  Then you can go to fuerstnet and download the
drupal-6.14-to-6.18.patch security fixes only patch, or you can
download the 6.14-to-to-6.20.patch (which includes bug fixes +
security fixes.).<p>The first thing you need to do is make sure you
have a current back-up of the database and the drupal file
system.<p>1. Quick back-up of the file system:<br>

{% highlight bash %}
  cp -R DRUPAL_ROOT DRUPAL_ROOT-bk
{% endhighlight %}

<br>2. Copy of database:<br>

{% highlight bash %}
   mysqldump -uDB-USER -p DB-NAME > ~/DRUPAL-SITE-NAME.db-backup-DATE.sql
{% endhighlight %}

<p>or you can do the database back-up with drush:<br>

{% highlight bash %}
 drush sql-dump --result-file=~/DRUPAL-SITE-NAME.db_backup-DATE.sql
{% endhighlight %}

<br>Of course, you need to replace all of the ALL_CAPS names up above with the names
that correspond with your site.  Now on to the update procedure:<p>The
procedure, as outlined at fuerstnet, is:<br>

1. copy the patch into you're drupal root directory.

2. put your site into maintenance 
mode. "admin/settings/site-maintenance" (in drupal 6)<br>3. cd into
the DRUPAL_ROOT directory.<br>4. patch -p1 --dry-run < DRUPALPATCH
<br>(replace DRUPALPATCH with the name of your patch, ie
drupal-6.14-to-6.20.patch)if you do not see any errors in the output
of the patch command, then you can run the command again for
real.<br>5. patch -p1 < DRUPALPATCH  <br>Next you have to run
update.php, which if you have drush you can run like so:<br>6. drush
updatedb<br>or you can visit
http://YOUR-DRUPAL-SITE/update.php<br>7. next: test your site, update
any modules that need updating and then don't forget to pull your site
out of maintenance mode.<p>Another possibility is to run the upgrades
in drush with the shell command:<br>

{% highlight bash %}
drush pm-update --security-only
{% endhighlight %}

<p>This command will update your site with any
available security updates.  It will first show you a list of updates
that are available and ask if you if you want to proceed.  You must
answer y or n.  This command is great, because you can run it in the
root directory of any of your drupal sites and it will show you which
updates are available.  Also if you have site-aliases set up, you can
run it against all of your aliases one at a time and you don't have to
leave the comfort of your /home directory! <p>

{% highlight bash %}
drush @dev pm-update --security-only
{% endhighlight %}

<br>(where @dev is an alias name for one of your sites.)<p>Of course
you can run the update command without the --security-only and it will
offer to update all of your modules, themes and core drupal files.
<p>[However I ran into trouble with this approach as it updated the
themes as well on one of the sites I was updating and the original
site developer had customized the theme instead of creating a new them
and customizing that!  So I restore the theme from backup.  Of course
when drush updates modules and themes it backs up the old ones in a
directory outside the drupal directory, so if there is a mishap, such
as overwriting a customized theme, you can restore and clear cache to
restore the old theme.  Although there is that safety net, I still now
prefer to update security-fixes only at first, and then run
non-security modules fixes one at a time and run the theme fixes
manually.  Schwew, big aside.]<p>After running the

{% highlight bash %}
drush pm-update
{% endhighlight %}

which can be shortened to

{% highlight bash %}
drush up
{% endhighlight %}

I like to run a quick:<br>

{% highlight bash %}
drush updatedb
{% endhighlight %}

to make sure the database has been updated properly, and:

{% highlight bash %}
drush cc all
{% endhighlight %}

<br>to make sure the caches are cleared.
<p>And once you have all of your sites aliased, it is simple to ssh
into your web server and run the

{% highlight bash %}
drush up --security-only
{% endhighlight %}

command once a week to check that all of your sites are up to date
with the security fixes.
<p>
